{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deflang1033\plain\fs24\fet1
{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
}
{\info
{\createim\yr2026\mo3\dy13\hr7\min36}
}

\hyphauto1\paperw12247\paperh15819\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440
\slmult0\ltrpar\li0
{\b\i0\fs28
Cloud Infrastructure & Applications
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Introduction to Cloud Computing
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li200
When a new business idea appears, it will naturally need computing power. Anyway, will it be easy? Let's see.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Challenges of using Traditional Datacenters
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Capital Investment (CapEx)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
You gotta buys stuffs like location, hardware, infrastructure and construct. So, that initial cost is this. As an example, if we want to create a datacenter, we first need a building with cooling and power backup.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Operational Expenses (OpEx)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
You need to pay for the electricity bills, internet connectivity and other maintenance stuffs. So, that is this one.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Scaling Problems
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Scaling Up
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
When the demand increases, datacenter capabilities should also increase. As an example, during new year shopping season, you may get a huge traffic. If datacenter doesn't have enough servers, website may crash.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Scaling Down
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Some systems doesn't need resources that much in some periods. So, we need to release some resources. Otherwise it becomes a waste.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Technical Challenges
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Multiple tools needed
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Failure Detection vs Troubleshooting
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Software & Security Patching
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Human Challenges
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Needs skilled people to run a datacenter. if a network engineer leaves, it takes weeks or months to replace that expertise.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Natural Risks
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Man-Made Risks
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cyber Attacks
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Misconfiguration
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Insider Threats
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Regulations, Reputation & Trust
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
International Standards
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
ISO/IEC 27001
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Standard for Information Security Management Systems
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
SOC 2
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Evaluate service providers based on Security, Availability and Confidentiality. Often required for Cloud or SaaS providers.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
PCI DSS
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Security Standard for organizations that handle credit card data.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
GDPR
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
European regulation protecting personal data and privacy. Even the company is outside the EU, they gotta comply if they handle the data of EU citizens' data.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
HIPAA
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
US regulation for protecting healthcare data.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Local Standards
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
CBSL Guidelines
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
IT and Cybersecurity regulation for Financial Institutions.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
TRC Guidelines
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Regulates telecommunication infrastructure and services
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
PDPA
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Sri Lanka's law for personal data protection and privacy.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Datacenter Standards
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
ANSI/TIA-942-C
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Telecommunication Infra. Standard for Datacenters.

Defines minimum infra. requirements for datacenters. Applicable for single-tenant, multi-tenant and micro-edge datacenters.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Architecture
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Physical Layout
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Space Planning
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Environmental considerations
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Electrical
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Power destributions
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Redundancy Levels
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Grounding & Bonding
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Backoups & Failover
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Mechanical
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cooling and HVAC
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Redundant Cooling Paths
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Env. Control
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Airflow management
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Telecommunication
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Structured Cabling
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cable Pathways
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Telecommunication Spaces
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Compliance
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Meet performance requirements for bandwidth and network latency
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Technological Limitations
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Adapting to business needs
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Frequent technology changes
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
High capital investment
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Uptime Calculation
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
Percentage of time a system is available and working. To achieve higher uptime redundancy, disaster recovery and monitoring systems implementation is necessary.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Why Cloud
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Benefits
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
No Physical Datacenter
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Easy scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Pay-per-Use
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
High Availability
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud is not 100% Up
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Software Bugs
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Configuration Errors
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Infrastructure failures
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
AWS Outage of US-EAST-1
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Problem in Synchronization Mechanism
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Race Condition in DNS
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Solution: Locks, Semaphores, Flags
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud Service Models
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud Computing
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Traditional IT Resources
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
These are physically owned and managed by the organization
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Servers
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Middleware Platforms
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Software Applications
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Storage Systems
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud Resources
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
The same IT resources hosted in a cloud provider\u8217\'3fs infrastructure

Accessed through the internet

Eg:

Amazon Web Services
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Benefits
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Organizations can use resurces without owning the hardware
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Essential Cloud Computing Properties (NIST)
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
On-Demand Self-Service
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Users can create or release resources whenever needed without human interaction with the provider.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Operations
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Provision
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
**Provision :**Reserving resources 

eg:

Starting a server
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Decommission
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
**Decommission : **Releasing resources when no longer needed
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Ways to do the operations
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Manual
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
**Manual **: Through a web dashboard
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Automated
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
**Automated : **Through APIs used by applications or scripts
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Broad Network Access
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Cloud services are accessible over the internet from many locations and devices.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Features
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Services distributed geographically
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Measured Service (Pay-Per-Use)
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Resource Pooling
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Rapid Elasticity
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud Application Stack
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
Cloud Systems are organized as** Layered Stack**

From Bottom to Top
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\fs20
1.Physical Hardware
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
The Foundation Layer of the cloud.
This includes:

- Servers
- Storage devices
- Network switches and routers
- Power supply and cooling system , these are located inside data centers
Basically provide raw computing power and storage
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
2.Virtual Hardware
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Instead of directly giving physical machines to users,cloud systems create virtual versions of hardware.This is done using **hypervisor.**

## Hypervisor

Software that allows multiple VM s to run on one physical server.One physical server can host many VMs , improving resource utilization.
VM Components include :

- Virtual servers
- Virtual CPU
- Vistual RAM etc.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
3.Operating Systems
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
OS sits on top of Virtual hardware.


eg-Microsoft windows server,Linux
Role of OS :

- Manage Hardware resources
- Provide services to applications

OS also handles:
- Caching - temp storage for faster access
- Process scheduling - deciding which program runs on CPU.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
4.Middleware
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Provides execution environments and supporting services for applications.Act as a bridge between OS and Applications.

eg-Application servers, DB systems, Messaging systems

Purpose: Simplify application development , Provide communication and data services.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
5.Application Software
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Contains actual SW used by users or other systems.Applications provide specific functionality. Run on top of middleware and OS.

eg-CRM Systems,ERP Systems
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
6.Business Processes
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Represents how organizations use applications to run their operations.Business processes are workflows supported by SW systems.

eg-Credit approval process,Order processing,Billing

Applications automate and manage these organizational workflows
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Essential Cloud Application Properties
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
IDEAL Properties
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Isolation
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Cloud Applications should avoid storing state inside induvidual servers
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Stateless Design
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Each request can be processed independently

**State(Session data or Application data) **should be stored externally in **Databases **or **Distributed Caches**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Benefits
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Servers can be added or removed easily
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Supports elasticity
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Distribution
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Cloud applications should be divided in to multiple components instead of a single large system
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Components Seperated Based On
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Communication Patterns
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Resource Requirements (CPU, memory)
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Functional Responsibilities
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Benefits
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Improves Scalability
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Improves Performance
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Elasticity
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Applications should support **Dynamic Scaling**

**Dynamic Scaling - **Automatic adjustment of computing resources based on demand
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Horizontal Scaling (Scale Out)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Increase the number of servers to handle more workload

Eg:

Instead of using one webserver, adding five more servers to handle requests
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Benefits
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Distributes workload across multiple machines
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Vertical Scaling (Scale Up)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Increasing the power of a single machine

Eg:

Upgrading the server from 8GB RAM =&gt; 64GB RAM
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Benefits
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Improves performance of a single device to handle more workload
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Automated Management
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Cloud systems rely heavily on **Automation**

**(**The system can **manage,monitor and adjust resources automatically** with little or no human effort**)**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Automation Tasks
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Starting new virtual machines
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Adjusting server specifications
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Reconfiguring network topology
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Adding new components to handle traffic
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Why Automation is needed
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Rapid elasticity requires systems to scale quickly without manual intervention
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Loose Coupling
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Components should be independent of each other as much as possible
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Techniques Used
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Service-oriented Architectures
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Asynchronous Messaging
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Benefits
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Faliure of one component won't break the entire system
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Easier scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Easier Maintenance
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud Service models
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
Three main models:

Iaas
Paas
Saas
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Iaas -Infrastructure as a service
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Provides basic computing infrastructure.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
What is provided? Bare metal servers,virtual machines,virtual storage
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
## Access methods

Cloud Management console
SSH

VPN

Server management consoles

example provider - AWS
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Responsibilities
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Provider manages
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Physical Hardware

Networking

Virtualization
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Customer manages
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
OS

Middleware

Applications

Business process
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Tenant Level
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
- Hardware is shared 
- Separation is done using virtualization

Multiple customers run VMs on the same physical layer.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Iaas and Cloud Properties
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Broad network acces
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Servers accessible via internet

eg-SSH to EC2
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
On-demand self-service
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Developers can launch a new VM anytime without contacting support.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Measured Service
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Billing based on usage (CPU hourse , storage,network)
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Resource pooling
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Cloud clusters dynamically allocate CPU, memory, and storage
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Rapid elasticity
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
Auto- scaling adds more servers during traffic spikes.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Paas - Platform as a service
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
What is provided?
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Saas - Software as a service
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li200
{\b0\i0\fs24
The Ways of Cloud
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Traditional On-Premises storage
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Limitations
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Limited scalability
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Storage is fixed by purchased hardware
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
High upfront cost
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Must buy servers, storage arrays, networking equipment upfront
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Maintenence & management burden
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Need to handle hardware failure, updates, backups and disaster recovery
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Performance scaling is hard
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Adding more users or workload
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Key terms
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
IOPS -> no of read/customer operation the storage can handle per second
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Throughput -> amount of data transferred per second
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud storage in AWS
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Elastic - Block store (EBS) - Block storage
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
io2 -> high performance db
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
Purpose : virtual hard disk for EC2

Benefits : Incremental backups

       restore efficiently
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
st1 -> throughput oriented
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
sc1 -> cold HDD
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
gp3 -> general purpose
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
S3 (simple storageservices) - object storage
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
EFS (elastic file system) - shared file storage
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Database on cloud
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Relational (SQL)
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
NoSQL
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud Applications - Migration & Workload Management
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li200
**Conventional Migration (Lift-and-Shift)**

- Move an on-prem monolithic app (single server + local DB) to cloud.
- Limitation: basic lift-and-shift may not fully utilize cloud scalability or redundancy.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Workload Categories & Cloud Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Static Workload
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
- Steady, predictable usage; minimal scaling.
- Example: internal HR system in a Colombo office.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Periodic Workload
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
- Predictable peaks like daily payroll and university exam portal traffic
- Pay-per-use and decommission unused resources in public cloud.
- Private cloud must maintain static scaling for peaks.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Once-in-a-Lifetime Workload
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
- Rare, massive spikes like Black Friday or New Year
- Manual provisioning works due to rarity; still pay-per-use.
- Resource pooling improves utilization.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Continuously Changing Workload
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
- Growing or shrinking usage like IoT data from Colombo traffic sensors.
- Requires continuous monitoring and incremental provisioning.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Unpredictable Workload
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
- Random traffic surges.
- Requires reactive auto-scaling with real-time monitoring.
- Challenges: fast reaction time; standby resources may be needed for extreme surges.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Scaling Policies
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\fs20
Target Tracking Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
- Keeps a specific metric like CPU usage or memory usage at a target level.

**Cloud example**: Target CPU = 50%.

CPU rises to 65% \u8594\'3f cloud automatically adds more instances.

CPU drops to 35% \u8594\'3f cloud removes some instances.

- Ideal for apps with moderate, predictable fluctuations, like an e-commerce site in Sri Lanka during normal days.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\fs20
Step Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Adds or removes resources in steps depending on how far the metric is from the threshold.

**Cloud Example:** CPU usage:

o\u160\'3f70\u8211\'3f80% \u8594\'3f add 1 instance

o\u160\'3f80\u8211\'3f90% \u8594\'3f add 2 instances

o\u160\'3f90% \u8594\'3f add 4 instances

o\u160\'3fIf CPU drops below 90% for 5 minutes \u8594\'3f remove 4 instances

- Useful for sites with sudden but measurable spikes, like a Sri Lankan lottery results website on draw days.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\fs20
Simple Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Performs one scaling action for each alarm.

**Cloud Example**: CloudWatch alarm:

- CPU &gt; 70% triggers adding 2 instances
- CPU &lt; 30% triggers removing 1 instance
- Cooldown = 300 seconds.

Basic apps with occasional spikes where you don\u8217\'3ft need complex scaling logic.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\fs20
Scheduled Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Changes instance count at specific times.

**Cloud Example**:

- 8:00 AM \u8594\'3f scale up to 10 instances
- 6:00 PM \u8594\'3f scale down to 3 instances

Perfect for predictable traffic, like Government office systems in Sri Lanka during business hours.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b\fs20
Predictive Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Uses machine learning to forecast traffic and scale before spikes occur.

**Example**:

- Traffic usually peaks at 9 AM \u8594\'3f ASG adds instances at 8:45 AM automatically.

Apps with recurring peak patterns, like online university registration systems in Sri Lanka.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Workload Types vs Scaling Policy
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
**Static Workload** \u8211\'3f No Scaling Needed
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
**Periodic Workload** \u8211\'3f Scheduled + Target Tracking or Step Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\fs20
**Once-in-a-Lifetime Workload **\u8211\'3f Scheduled + Target Tracking/Step Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
**Continuously Changing Workload **\u8211\'3f Target Tracking or Step Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
**Unpredictable Workload** \u8211\'3f Predictive + Target Tracking
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Instance Termination Policies (Scale In)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
When an Auto Scaling Group (ASG) needs to remove instances to scale in (reduce resources), you can control which EC2 instances get terminated first using termination policies.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
OldestInstance
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Terminates the instance that has been running the longest.

Replace old servers with newer ones.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
NewestInstance
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Terminates the most recently launched instance first.

Protect stable instances, remove new ones that may not be fully warmed up.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
OldestLaunchConfiguration
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Terminates instances using the oldest launch configuration first.

Ensure all instances run the latest configuration.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
OldestLaunchTemplate
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Removes instances from the oldest template first.

Keep fleet consistent with newest template versions.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
ClosestToBillingHour
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Terminates instances that are closest to the end of their current billing hour.

Optimize costs by avoiding partial-hour charges.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Warm Pools for Auto Scaling Groups (ASG)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
A Warm Pool is a collection of EC2 instances that are pre-initialized and ready to go, but not actively serving traffic yet.

Using a warm pool lets the ASG scale out faster because these instances are already partially ready.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Auto Scaling Groups (ASG) - Horizontal Scaling & Data Handling
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
- Logical group of EC2 instances managed together.
- Scales in/out automatically to maintain availability and handle variable demand.
- Integrates with CloudWatch metrics, alarms, and load balancers.
- Can span multiple Availability Zones.

**Core ASG Components**

- Launch Template/Configuration: AMI, instance type, security groups, scripts.
- Capacity Settings: min, max, desired instances.
- Health Checks: automatically replace unhealthy instances.
- Scaling Policies: dynamic, scheduled, predictive.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Horizontal Scaling Only
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
ASGs add or remove EC2 instances, never modify

Vertical Scaling Not Supported

For bigger workloads, you scale by number of instances, not individual instance capacity
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Managing Data Stores During Scaling
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Ideal Microservices: Each service has its own isolated datastore \u8594\'3f easy to scale.

Services may share databases or file systems. Scaling compute alone doesn\u8217\'3ft solve data bottlenecks.

Therefore;

- Decouple Compute and Storage:
- Use managed databases (RDS, DynamoDB).
- Store static assets in object storage (S3, Azure Blob).
- Shared file systems (EFS) for multi-instance access.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Handling Database Write Load & Consistency
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
Scaling compute doesn\u8217\'3ft automatically solve write-heavy databases or consistency issues.

Use event-driven / asynchronous patterns:

- Buffer writes via Message Queues (SQS) or Streaming Systems (Kafka).
- Background workers process writes at a safe pace.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
SQS
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**Ordering**\u160\'3f: Strong ordering within partitions

Message Replay

**Message Retention**\u160\'3f: Long, configurable

**Throughput**\u160\'3f: Extremely high

**Operational Complexity**\u160\'3f: High
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Kafka
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**Ordering**\u160\'3f: Standard: no ordering; FIFO: strict

No Message Replay

**Message Retention**\u160\'3f: Short, CSP-defined

**Throughput**\u160\'3f: Moderate

**Operational Complexity**\u160\'3f: Very low
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Takeaways
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
ASG is about adding/removing instances.

Data architecture must be decoupled from compute.

Event-driven patterns keep databases safe and consistent during scaling.

Choose SQS if you want simplicity, Kafka if you need high throughput + replay + ordering.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud Deployment Models
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Private Cloud
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
**Definition:**
Cloud infrastructure used **only by one organization** (not shared).

**Features**

- Used by multiple departments
- Managed by organization / third party / cloud provider
- Can be **on-premise or off-premise**

**Infrastructure**

- **Homogeneous** \u8211\'3f same hardware
- **Heterogeneous** \u8211\'3f different hardware

**Policies**

- Fully customizable for the organization

**Cost**

- **CapEx** \u8211\'3f buy infrastructure
- **OpEx** \u8211\'3f pay as a service
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Private Cloud Deployments
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
**Outsourced Private Cloud**

- Infrastructure hosted by a **cloud provider**
- Used by **one organization only**

**Resource Sharing**

- CPU and RAM may be shared
- Isolation provided using **virtualization**

**Example**

- Amazon Web Services private cloud solutions

**Infrastructure Structure**

- Cloud infrastructure divided into **Regions** and **Availability Zones**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Region
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
**Definition:**
A **Region** is a large geographic area with **multiple datacenters**.

**Characteristics**

- Regions are **300 km or more apart**
- Connected through the **cloud provider\u8217\'3fs private global network**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Reasons for choosing a region
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**Compliance**

- Some countries require **data to stay in specific locations** (e.g., GDPR)

**Latency**

- Choose **regions closer to users** for faster response
- Example: **online gaming needs low latency**

**Service Availability**

- Some services exist **only in certain regions**
- Example: **special GPU servers**

**Pricing**

- **Costs vary between regions**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Compliance
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Latency
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Service Availability
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Pricing
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Availability Zones (AZ)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
**Definition**
An **Availability Zone** is an **isolated location inside a region**.

**Characteristics**

- Usually **3 or more datacenters**
- About **100 km apart**
- Connected by **high-speed private networks**

**Purpose**

- **High availability**
- **Disaster recovery**

**Example**
Applications run servers in **multiple AZs** so if one datacenter fails, another continues service.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
**Definition**
A **VPC** is a **logically isolated network** inside a cloud provider\u8217\'3fs infrastructure.

**Key Idea**

- Hardware may be **shared**
- Network environment remains **isolated and private**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Features
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**IP Address Range**

- Defined using **CIDR blocks**
- Example: **10.0.0.0/16**

**Subnets**

- Network segments inside a VPC
- **Public subnet** \u8211\'3f internet accessible
- **Private subnet** \u8211\'3f not directly accessible

**Route Tables**

- Control **how traffic moves between networks**
- Applied at **subnet level**

**Gateways**

**Internet Gateway**

- Allows **public subnet access to the internet**

**NAT Gateway**

- Allows **private subnet servers to access the internet securely** without being exposed
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
IP Address Range
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Subnets
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Public subnet
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Private subnet
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Route Tables
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1000
{\b0\i0\fs24
Gateways
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
Internet Gateway
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li1200
{\b0\i0\fs24
NAT Gateway
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Security Controls
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
**Security Group**

- Applied to **instances**
- **Allow rules only**
- **Stateful**
- **All rules evaluated**

**NACL**

- Applied to **subnets**
- **Allow &amp; Deny rules**
- **Stateless**
- **Rules checked in order**

**Easy Way to Remember**

- **Security Group \u8594\'3f Instance firewall**
- **NACL \u8594\'3f Subnet firewall**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Security Groups
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**Definition**
A **Security Group** is a **virtual firewall for cloud instances**.

**Rules**

- Applied at **instance or network interface level**
- **Stateful** \u8594\'3f responses are automatically allowed
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Network ACL (NACL)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**Definition**
A **Network ACL** is a **firewall applied at the subnet level**.

**Rules**

- **Stateless**
- Must explicitly define **allow or deny rules**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Virtual Private Network (VPN)
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
### **Definition**
A **VPN (Virtual Private Network)** creates a **secure connection over the internet**.

**Tunnel Concept**

- A **tunnel** is a virtual communication path
- Original packet is **encapsulated inside another packet**
- Data is **sent securely through the network**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Types of VPN
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Host-to-Host VPN
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**Definition**
A **Host-to-Host VPN** creates a **secure connection between two devices**.

**Example**

- Employee **laptop connecting to the company network** securely.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Site-to-Site VPN
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**Definition**
A **Site-to-Site VPN** creates a **secure connection between two office networks**.

**Example**

- A company **connecting two branch offices securely**.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
VPN and Extended LAN
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
**Definition**
An **Extended LAN** allows **multiple remote networks to behave like one LAN**.

**How**

- Achieved using a **VPN tunnel**

**Example**

- Offices in **Colombo** and **Kandy**
- Same network: **192.168.1.0/24**
- VPN **Layer-2 extension** makes both appear as **one local network**.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Latency Problem in Cloud Regions
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
**Concept**
If users access a **distant datacenter**, **latency increases**.

**Example Applications**

- **Online gaming**
- **AR/VR systems**

These require **very low latency for real-time performance**.
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Local Zones
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**Definition**
**Local Zones** place **cloud resources closer to major population centers**.

**Resources**

- Compute
- Storage
- Databases

**Purpose**

- **Reduce latency** for faster response times

**Note**

- Managed by the **cloud provider**
- **Not available in every region**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
{\b0\i0\fs24
Wavelength Zones
}
\par\pard\plain
{\slmult0\ltrpar\li800
**Definition**
**Wavelength Zones** place **cloud infrastructure inside telecom carrier networks**.

**Focus**

- **Ultra-low latency** for mobile applications

**Examples**

- **5G applications**
- **AR/VR**
- **Real-time gaming**

**Architecture**

- **Latency-critical components run in the Wavelength Zone**
- **Databases and storage remain in the main region**
\par\pard\plain}
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Dedicated Resources in Private Cloud
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Dedicated EC2 Hosts
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Dedicated EC2 Instances
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Maintaining Resiliency with Dedicated Resources
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Infrastructure as Code (IaC)
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Two Approaches in IaC
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Benefits of IaC
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Terraform Basic Workflow
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Terraform vs Ansible
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Drift Detection
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Playbook
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Runbook
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
IAM (Identity and Access Management)
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
IAM Role
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
IAM Policies
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li400
{\b0\i0\fs24
Private Cloud Connectivity
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Private Cloud (Using Own Datacenter)
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Cloud Connectivity
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Mesh Peering Problem
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Transit Gateway
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Web Caching
}
\par\pard\plain
\slmult0\ltrpar\li600
{\b0\i0\fs24
Content Delivery Network (CDN)
}
\par\pard\plain
}